README.md, before:

.tmux
=====

Self-contained, pretty and versatile `.tmux.conf` configuration file.

![Screenshot](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/19740585/85596a5a-9bbf-11e6-8aa1-7c8d9829c008.gif)

Installation
------------

Requirements:

  - tmux **`>= 2.1`** running inside Linux, Mac, OpenBSD, Cygwin or WSL (Bash on
    Ubuntu on Windows)
  - outside of tmux, `$TERM` must be set to `xterm-256color`

To install, run the following from your terminal: (you may want to backup your
existing `~/.tmux.conf` first)

```
$ cd
$ git clone https://github.com/gpakosz/.tmux.git
$ ln -s -f .tmux/.tmux.conf
$ cp .tmux/.tmux.conf.local .
```

Then proceed to [customize] your `~/.tmux.conf.local` copy.

[customize]: #enabling-the-powerline-look

If you're a Vim user, setting the `$EDITOR` environment variable to `vim` will
enable and further customize the vi-style key bindings (see tmux manual).

If you're new to tmux, I recommend you read [tmux 2: Productive Mouse-Free
Development][bhtmux2] by [@bphogan].

[bhtmux2]: https://pragprog.com/book/bhtmux2/tmux-2
[@bphogan]: https://twitter.com/bphogan

Troubleshooting
---------------

 - **I'm running tmux `HEAD` and things don't work properly. What should I do?**

   Please open an issue describing what doesn't work with upcoming tmux. I'll do
   my best to address it.

 - **Status line is broken and/or gets duplicated at the bottom of the screen.
   What gives?**

   This particularly happens on Linux when the distribution provides a version
   of glib that received Unicode 9.0 upgrades (glib `>= 2.50.1`) while providing
   a version of glibc that didn't (glibc `< 2.26`). You may also configure
   `LC_CTYPE` to use an `UTF-8` locale. Typically VTE based terminal emulators
   rely on glib's `g_unichar_iswide()` function while tmux relies on glibc's
   `wcwidth()` function. When these two functions disagree, display gets messed
   up.

   This can also happen on macOS when using iTerm2 and "Use Unicode version 9
   character widths" is enabled in `Preferences... > Profiles > Text`

   For that reason, the default `~/.tmux.conf.local` file stopped using Unicode
   characters for which width changed in between Unicode 8.0 and 9.0 standards,
   as well as Emojis.

 - **I installed Powerline and/or (patched) fonts but can't see Powerline
   symbols.**

   First, you don't need to install Powerline. You only need fonts patched with
   Powerline symbols or the standalone `PowerlineSymbols.otf` font. Then make
   sure your `~/.tmux.conf.local` copy uses the right code points for
   `tmux_conf_theme_left_separator_XXX` values.

 - **I'm using Bash On Windows (WSL), colors and Powerline look are broken.**

   There is currently a [bug][1681] in the new console powering Bash On Windows
   preventing text attributes (bold, underscore, ...) to combine properly with
   colors. The workaround is to search your `~/.tmux.conf.local` copy and
   replace attributes with `'none'`.

   Also, until Window's console replaces its GDI based render with a DirectWrite
   one, Powerline symbols will be broken.

   The alternative is to use the [Mintty terminal for WSL][wsltty].

[1681]: https://github.com/Microsoft/BashOnWindows/issues/1681
[wsltty]: https://github.com/mintty/wsltty

Features
--------

 - `C-a` acts as secondary prefix, while keeping default `C-b` prefix
 - visual theme inspired by [Powerline][]
 - [maximize any pane to a new window with `<prefix> +`][maximize-pane]
 - SSH/Mosh aware username and hostname status line information
 - mouse mode toggle with `<prefix> m`
 - automatic usage of [`reattach-to-user-namespace`][reattach-to-user-namespace]
   if available
 - laptop battery status line information
 - uptime status line information
 - optional highlight of focused pane (tmux `>= 2.1`)
 - configurable new windows and panes behavior (optionally retain current path)
 - SSH/Mosh aware split pane (reconnects to remote server)
 - copy to OS clipboard (needs [`reattach-to-user-namespace`][reattach-to-user-namespace]
   on macOS, `xsel` or `xclip` on Linux)
 - [Facebook PathPicker][] integration if available
 - [Urlview][] integration if available

[Powerline]: https://github.com/Lokaltog/powerline
[maximize-pane]: http://pempek.net/articles/2013/04/14/maximizing-tmux-pane-new-window/
[reattach-to-user-namespace]: https://github.com/ChrisJohnsen/tmux-MacOSX-pasteboard
[Facebook PathPicker]: https://facebook.github.io/PathPicker/
[Urlview]: https://packages.debian.org/stable/misc/urlview

The "maximize any pane to a new window with `<prefix> +`" feature is different
from builtin `resize-pane -Z` as it allows you to further split a maximized
pane. It's also more flexible by allowing you to maximize a pane to a new
window, then change window, then go back and the pane is still in maximized
state in its own window. You can then minimize a pane by using `<prefix> +`
either from the source window or the maximized window.

![Maximize pane](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/9890858/ee3c0ca6-5c02-11e5-890e-05d825a46c92.gif)

Mouse mode allows you to set the active window, set the active pane, resize
panes and automatically switches to copy-mode to select text.

![Mouse mode](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/9890797/8dffe542-5c02-11e5-9c06-a25b452e6fcc.gif)

Bindings
--------

tmux may be controlled from an attached client by using a key combination of a
prefix key, followed by a command key. This configuration uses `C-a` as a
secondary prefix while keeping `C-b` as the default prefix. In the following
list of key bindings:
  - `<prefix>` means you have to either hit <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>a</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>b</kbd>
  - `<prefix> c` means you have to hit <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>a</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>b</kbd> followed by <kbd>c</kbd>
  - `<prefix> C-c` means you have to hit <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>a</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>b</kbd> followed by <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>c</kbd>

This configuration uses the following bindings:

 - `<prefix> e` opens `~/.tmux.conf.local` with the editor defined by the
   `$EDITOR` environment variable (defaults to `vim` when empty)
 - `<prefix> r` reloads the configuration
 - `C-l` clears both the screen and the tmux history

 - `<prefix> C-c` creates a new session
 - `<prefix> C-f` lets you switch to another session by name

 - `<prefix> C-h` and `<prefix> C-l` let you navigate windows (default
   `<prefix> n` and `<prefix> p` are unbound)
 - `<prefix> Tab` brings you to the last active window

 - `<prefix> -` splits the current pane vertically
 - `<prefix> _` splits the current pane horizontally
 - `<prefix> h`, `<prefix> j`, `<prefix> k` and `<prefix> l` let you navigate
   panes ala Vim
 - `<prefix> H`, `<prefix> J`, `<prefix> K`, `<prefix> L` let you resize panes
 - `<prefix> <` and `<prefix> >` let you swap panes
 - `<prefix> +` maximizes the current pane to a new window

 - `<prefix> m` toggles mouse mode on or off

 - `<prefix> U` launches Urlview (if available)
 - `<prefix> F` launches Facebook PathPicker (if available)

 - `<prefix> Enter` enters copy-mode
 - `<prefix> b` lists the paste-buffers
 - `<prefix> p` pastes from the top paste-buffer
 - `<prefix> P` lets you choose the paste-buffer to paste from

Additionally, `copy-mode-vi` matches [my own Vim configuration][]

[my own Vim configuration]: https://github.com/gpakosz/.vim.git

Bindings for `copy-mode-vi`:

- `v` begins selection / visual mode
- `C-v` toggles between blockwise visual mode and visual mode
- `H` jumps to the start of line
- `L` jumps to the end of line
- `y` copies the selection to the top paste-buffer
- `Escape` cancels the current operation

Configuration
-------------

While this configuration tries to bring sane default settings, you may want to
customize it further to your needs. Instead of altering the `~/.tmux.conf` file
and diverging from upstream, the proper way is to edit the `~/.tmux.conf.local`
file.

Please refer to the default `~/.tmux.conf.local` file to know more about
variables you can adjust to alter different behaviors. Pressing `<prefix> e`
will open `~/.tmux.conf.local` with the editor defined by the `$EDITOR`
environment variable (defaults to `vim` when empty).

### Enabling the Powerline look

Powerline originated as a status-line plugin for Vim. Its popular eye-catching
look is based on the use of special symbols: <img width="80" alt="Powerline Symbols" style="vertical-align: middle;" src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/10687156/1b76dda6-796b-11e5-83a1-1634337c4571.png" />

To make use of these symbols, there are several options:

- use a font that already bundles those: this is e.g. the case of the
  [2.030R-ro/1.050R-it version][source code pro] of the Source Code Pro font
- use a [pre-patched font][powerline patched fonts]
- use your preferred font along with the [Powerline font][powerline font] (that
  only contains the Powerline symbols): [this highly depends on your operating
  system and your terminal emulator][terminal support]

[source code pro]: https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro/releases/tag/2.030R-ro/1.050R-it
[powerline patched fonts]: https://github.com/powerline/fonts
[powerline font]: https://github.com/powerline/powerline/raw/develop/font/PowerlineSymbols.otf
[terminal support]: http://powerline.readthedocs.io/en/master/usage.html#usage-terminal-emulators
[Powerline manual]: http://powerline.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installation.html#fonts-installation

Please see the [Powerline manual] for further details.

Then edit the `~/.tmux.conf.local` file (`<prefix> e`) and adjust the following
variables:

```
tmux_conf_theme_left_separator_main=''
tmux_conf_theme_left_separator_sub=''
tmux_conf_theme_right_separator_main=''
tmux_conf_theme_right_separator_sub=''
```
### Configuring the status line

Contrary to the first iterations of this configuration, by now you have total
control on the content and order of `status-left` and `status-right`.

Edit the `~/.tmux.conf.local` file (`<prefix> e`) and adjust the
`tmux_conf_theme_status_left` and `tmux_conf_theme_status_right` variables to
your own preferences.

This configuration supports the following builtin variables:

 - `#{battery_bar}`: horizontal battery charge bar
 - `#{battery_percentage}`: battery percentage
 - `#{battery_status}`: is battery charging or discharging?
 - `#{battery_vbar}`: vertical battery charge bar
 - `#{circled_session_name}`: circled session number, up to 20
 - `#{hostname}`: SSH/Mosh aware hostname information
 - `#{hostname_ssh}`: SSH/Mosh aware hostname information, blank when not
   connected to a remote server through SSH/Mosh
 - `#{loadavg}`: load average
 - `#{pairing}`: is session attached to more than one client?
 - `#{prefix}`: is prefix being depressed?
 - `#{root}`: is current user root?
 - `#{synchronized}`: are the panes synchronized?
 - `#{uptime_d}`: uptime days
 - `#{uptime_h}`: uptime hours
 - `#{uptime_m}`: uptime minutes
 - `#{uptime_s}`: uptime seconds
 - `#{username}`: SSH/Mosh aware username information
 - `#{username_ssh}`: SSH aware username information, blank when not connected
   to a remote server through SSH/Mosh

### Accessing the macOS clipboard from within tmux sessions

[Chris Johnsen created the `reattach-to-user-namespace`
utility][reattach-to-user-namespace] that makes `pbcopy` and `pbpaste` work
again within tmux.

To install `reattach-to-user-namespace`, use either [MacPorts][] or
[Homebrew][]:

    $ port install tmux-pasteboard

or

    $ brew install reattach-to-user-namespace

Once installed, `reattach-to-usernamespace` will be automatically detected.

[MacPorts]: http://www.macports.org/
[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/

### Using the configuration under Cygwin within Mintty

**I don't recommend running this configuration with Cygwin anymore. Forking
under Cygwin is extremely slow and this configuration issues a lot of
`run-shell` commands under the hood. As such, you will experience high CPU
usage. As an alternative consider using [Mintty terminal for WSL][wsltty].**

![cygwin](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/19741789/67a3f3d8-9bc2-11e6-9ecc-499fc0228ee6.png)

It is possible to use this configuration under Cygwin within Mintty, however
support for Unicode symbols and emojis lacks behind Mac and Linux.

Particularly, Mintty's text rendering is implemented with GDI which has
limitations:

- color emojis are only available through DirectWrite starting with Windows 8.1
- display of double width symbols, like the battery discharging symbol indicator
  (U+1F50B) is buggy

To get Unicode symbols displayed properly, you have to use [font linking].
Open `regedit.exe` then navigate to the registry key at
`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\FontLink\SystemLink`
and add a new entry for you preferred font to link it with the Segoe UI Symbol
font.

![regedit](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/19741304/71a2f3ae-9bc0-11e6-96aa-4c09a812c313.png)

[font linking]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/goglobal/bb688134.aspx

Commit message:

updated README.md to show how to 'curl wttr.in' to display weather, resolves #71

README.md, after:

.tmux
=====

Self-contained, pretty and versatile `.tmux.conf` configuration file.

![Screenshot](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/19740585/85596a5a-9bbf-11e6-8aa1-7c8d9829c008.gif)

Installation
------------

Requirements:

  - tmux **`>= 2.1`** running inside Linux, Mac, OpenBSD, Cygwin or WSL (Bash on
    Ubuntu on Windows)
  - outside of tmux, `$TERM` must be set to `xterm-256color`

To install, run the following from your terminal: (you may want to backup your
existing `~/.tmux.conf` first)

```
$ cd
$ git clone https://github.com/gpakosz/.tmux.git
$ ln -s -f .tmux/.tmux.conf
$ cp .tmux/.tmux.conf.local .
```

Then proceed to [customize] your `~/.tmux.conf.local` copy.

[customize]: #enabling-the-powerline-look

If you're a Vim user, setting the `$EDITOR` environment variable to `vim` will
enable and further customize the vi-style key bindings (see tmux manual).

If you're new to tmux, I recommend you read [tmux 2: Productive Mouse-Free
Development][bhtmux2] by [@bphogan].

[bhtmux2]: https://pragprog.com/book/bhtmux2/tmux-2
[@bphogan]: https://twitter.com/bphogan

Troubleshooting
---------------

 - **I'm running tmux `HEAD` and things don't work properly. What should I do?**

   Please open an issue describing what doesn't work with upcoming tmux. I'll do
   my best to address it.

 - **Status line is broken and/or gets duplicated at the bottom of the screen.
   What gives?**

   This particularly happens on Linux when the distribution provides a version
   of glib that received Unicode 9.0 upgrades (glib `>= 2.50.1`) while providing
   a version of glibc that didn't (glibc `< 2.26`). You may also configure
   `LC_CTYPE` to use an `UTF-8` locale. Typically VTE based terminal emulators
   rely on glib's `g_unichar_iswide()` function while tmux relies on glibc's
   `wcwidth()` function. When these two functions disagree, display gets messed
   up.

   This can also happen on macOS when using iTerm2 and "Use Unicode version 9
   character widths" is enabled in `Preferences... > Profiles > Text`

   For that reason, the default `~/.tmux.conf.local` file stopped using Unicode
   characters for which width changed in between Unicode 8.0 and 9.0 standards,
   as well as Emojis.

 - **I installed Powerline and/or (patched) fonts but can't see Powerline
   symbols.**

   First, you don't need to install Powerline. You only need fonts patched with
   Powerline symbols or the standalone `PowerlineSymbols.otf` font. Then make
   sure your `~/.tmux.conf.local` copy uses the right code points for
   `tmux_conf_theme_left_separator_XXX` values.

 - **I'm using Bash On Windows (WSL), colors and Powerline look are broken.**

   There is currently a [bug][1681] in the new console powering Bash On Windows
   preventing text attributes (bold, underscore, ...) to combine properly with
   colors. The workaround is to search your `~/.tmux.conf.local` copy and
   replace attributes with `'none'`.

   Also, until Window's console replaces its GDI based render with a DirectWrite
   one, Powerline symbols will be broken.

   The alternative is to use the [Mintty terminal for WSL][wsltty].

[1681]: https://github.com/Microsoft/BashOnWindows/issues/1681
[wsltty]: https://github.com/mintty/wsltty

Features
--------

 - `C-a` acts as secondary prefix, while keeping default `C-b` prefix
 - visual theme inspired by [Powerline][]
 - [maximize any pane to a new window with `<prefix> +`][maximize-pane]
 - SSH/Mosh aware username and hostname status line information
 - mouse mode toggle with `<prefix> m`
 - automatic usage of [`reattach-to-user-namespace`][reattach-to-user-namespace]
   if available
 - laptop battery status line information
 - uptime status line information
 - optional highlight of focused pane (tmux `>= 2.1`)
 - configurable new windows and panes behavior (optionally retain current path)
 - SSH/Mosh aware split pane (reconnects to remote server)
 - copy to OS clipboard (needs [`reattach-to-user-namespace`][reattach-to-user-namespace]
   on macOS, `xsel` or `xclip` on Linux)
 - [Facebook PathPicker][] integration if available
 - [Urlview][] integration if available

[Powerline]: https://github.com/Lokaltog/powerline
[maximize-pane]: http://pempek.net/articles/2013/04/14/maximizing-tmux-pane-new-window/
[reattach-to-user-namespace]: https://github.com/ChrisJohnsen/tmux-MacOSX-pasteboard
[Facebook PathPicker]: https://facebook.github.io/PathPicker/
[Urlview]: https://packages.debian.org/stable/misc/urlview

The "maximize any pane to a new window with `<prefix> +`" feature is different
from builtin `resize-pane -Z` as it allows you to further split a maximized
pane. It's also more flexible by allowing you to maximize a pane to a new
window, then change window, then go back and the pane is still in maximized
state in its own window. You can then minimize a pane by using `<prefix> +`
either from the source window or the maximized window.

![Maximize pane](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/9890858/ee3c0ca6-5c02-11e5-890e-05d825a46c92.gif)

Mouse mode allows you to set the active window, set the active pane, resize
panes and automatically switches to copy-mode to select text.

![Mouse mode](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/9890797/8dffe542-5c02-11e5-9c06-a25b452e6fcc.gif)

Bindings
--------

tmux may be controlled from an attached client by using a key combination of a
prefix key, followed by a command key. This configuration uses `C-a` as a
secondary prefix while keeping `C-b` as the default prefix. In the following
list of key bindings:
  - `<prefix>` means you have to either hit <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>a</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>b</kbd>
  - `<prefix> c` means you have to hit <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>a</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>b</kbd> followed by <kbd>c</kbd>
  - `<prefix> C-c` means you have to hit <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>a</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>b</kbd> followed by <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>c</kbd>

This configuration uses the following bindings:

 - `<prefix> e` opens `~/.tmux.conf.local` with the editor defined by the
   `$EDITOR` environment variable (defaults to `vim` when empty)
 - `<prefix> r` reloads the configuration
 - `C-l` clears both the screen and the tmux history

 - `<prefix> C-c` creates a new session
 - `<prefix> C-f` lets you switch to another session by name

 - `<prefix> C-h` and `<prefix> C-l` let you navigate windows (default
   `<prefix> n` and `<prefix> p` are unbound)
 - `<prefix> Tab` brings you to the last active window

 - `<prefix> -` splits the current pane vertically
 - `<prefix> _` splits the current pane horizontally
 - `<prefix> h`, `<prefix> j`, `<prefix> k` and `<prefix> l` let you navigate
   panes ala Vim
 - `<prefix> H`, `<prefix> J`, `<prefix> K`, `<prefix> L` let you resize panes
 - `<prefix> <` and `<prefix> >` let you swap panes
 - `<prefix> +` maximizes the current pane to a new window

 - `<prefix> m` toggles mouse mode on or off

 - `<prefix> U` launches Urlview (if available)
 - `<prefix> F` launches Facebook PathPicker (if available)

 - `<prefix> Enter` enters copy-mode
 - `<prefix> b` lists the paste-buffers
 - `<prefix> p` pastes from the top paste-buffer
 - `<prefix> P` lets you choose the paste-buffer to paste from

Additionally, `copy-mode-vi` matches [my own Vim configuration][]

[my own Vim configuration]: https://github.com/gpakosz/.vim.git

Bindings for `copy-mode-vi`:

- `v` begins selection / visual mode
- `C-v` toggles between blockwise visual mode and visual mode
- `H` jumps to the start of line
- `L` jumps to the end of line
- `y` copies the selection to the top paste-buffer
- `Escape` cancels the current operation

Configuration
-------------

While this configuration tries to bring sane default settings, you may want to
customize it further to your needs. Instead of altering the `~/.tmux.conf` file
and diverging from upstream, the proper way is to edit the `~/.tmux.conf.local`
file.

Please refer to the default `~/.tmux.conf.local` file to know more about
variables you can adjust to alter different behaviors. Pressing `<prefix> e`
will open `~/.tmux.conf.local` with the editor defined by the `$EDITOR`
environment variable (defaults to `vim` when empty).

### Enabling the Powerline look

Powerline originated as a status-line plugin for Vim. Its popular eye-catching
look is based on the use of special symbols: <img width="80" alt="Powerline Symbols" style="vertical-align: middle;" src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/10687156/1b76dda6-796b-11e5-83a1-1634337c4571.png" />

To make use of these symbols, there are several options:

- use a font that already bundles those: this is e.g. the case of the
  [2.030R-ro/1.050R-it version][source code pro] of the Source Code Pro font
- use a [pre-patched font][powerline patched fonts]
- use your preferred font along with the [Powerline font][powerline font] (that
  only contains the Powerline symbols): [this highly depends on your operating
  system and your terminal emulator][terminal support]

[source code pro]: https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro/releases/tag/2.030R-ro/1.050R-it
[powerline patched fonts]: https://github.com/powerline/fonts
[powerline font]: https://github.com/powerline/powerline/raw/develop/font/PowerlineSymbols.otf
[terminal support]: http://powerline.readthedocs.io/en/master/usage.html#usage-terminal-emulators
[Powerline manual]: http://powerline.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installation.html#fonts-installation

Please see the [Powerline manual] for further details.

Then edit the `~/.tmux.conf.local` file (`<prefix> e`) and adjust the following
variables:

```
tmux_conf_theme_left_separator_main=''
tmux_conf_theme_left_separator_sub=''
tmux_conf_theme_right_separator_main=''
tmux_conf_theme_right_separator_sub=''
```
### Configuring the status line

Contrary to the first iterations of this configuration, by now you have total
control on the content and order of `status-left` and `status-right`.

Edit the `~/.tmux.conf.local` file (`<prefix> e`) and adjust the
`tmux_conf_theme_status_left` and `tmux_conf_theme_status_right` variables to
your own preferences.

This configuration supports the following builtin variables:

 - `#{battery_bar}`: horizontal battery charge bar
 - `#{battery_percentage}`: battery percentage
 - `#{battery_status}`: is battery charging or discharging?
 - `#{battery_vbar}`: vertical battery charge bar
 - `#{circled_session_name}`: circled session number, up to 20
 - `#{hostname}`: SSH/Mosh aware hostname information
 - `#{hostname_ssh}`: SSH/Mosh aware hostname information, blank when not
   connected to a remote server through SSH/Mosh
 - `#{loadavg}`: load average
 - `#{pairing}`: is session attached to more than one client?
 - `#{prefix}`: is prefix being depressed?
 - `#{root}`: is current user root?
 - `#{synchronized}`: are the panes synchronized?
 - `#{uptime_d}`: uptime days
 - `#{uptime_h}`: uptime hours
 - `#{uptime_m}`: uptime minutes
 - `#{uptime_s}`: uptime seconds
 - `#{username}`: SSH/Mosh aware username information
 - `#{username_ssh}`: SSH aware username information, blank when not connected
   to a remote server through SSH/Mosh

Beside custom variables mentioned above, the `tmux_conf_theme_status_left` and
`tmux_conf_theme_status_right` variables support usual tmux syntax, e.g. using
`#()` to call an external command that inserts weather information provided by
[wttr.in]:
```
tmux_conf_theme_status_right='#{prefix}#{pairing}#{synchronized} #(curl wttr.in?format=3) , %R , %d %b | #{username}#{root} | #{hostname} '
```

![Weather information from wttr.in](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/553208/52175490-07797c00-27a5-11e9-9fb6-42eec4fe4188.png)

[wttr.in]: https://github.com/chubin/wttr.in#one-line-output

### Accessing the macOS clipboard from within tmux sessions

[Chris Johnsen created the `reattach-to-user-namespace`
utility][reattach-to-user-namespace] that makes `pbcopy` and `pbpaste` work
again within tmux.

To install `reattach-to-user-namespace`, use either [MacPorts][] or
[Homebrew][]:

    $ port install tmux-pasteboard

or

    $ brew install reattach-to-user-namespace

Once installed, `reattach-to-usernamespace` will be automatically detected.

[MacPorts]: http://www.macports.org/
[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/

### Using the configuration under Cygwin within Mintty

**I don't recommend running this configuration with Cygwin anymore. Forking
under Cygwin is extremely slow and this configuration issues a lot of
`run-shell` commands under the hood. As such, you will experience high CPU
usage. As an alternative consider using [Mintty terminal for WSL][wsltty].**

![cygwin](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/19741789/67a3f3d8-9bc2-11e6-9ecc-499fc0228ee6.png)

It is possible to use this configuration under Cygwin within Mintty, however
support for Unicode symbols and emojis lacks behind Mac and Linux.

Particularly, Mintty's text rendering is implemented with GDI which has
limitations:

- color emojis are only available through DirectWrite starting with Windows 8.1
- display of double width symbols, like the battery discharging symbol indicator
  (U+1F50B) is buggy

To get Unicode symbols displayed properly, you have to use [font linking].
Open `regedit.exe` then navigate to the registry key at
`HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\FontLink\SystemLink`
and add a new entry for you preferred font to link it with the Segoe UI Symbol
font.

![regedit](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/553208/19741304/71a2f3ae-9bc0-11e6-96aa-4c09a812c313.png)

[font linking]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/goglobal/bb688134.aspx
